Sharn Inquisitive

Who Owns Sharn? Portrait of The ir’Tains and the 60 Families

If you’ve read more than two issues of the Sharn Inquisitive, you’ve seen at least two stories about the ir’Tain family. King Boranel might rule Breland, and the Lord Mayor might be our highest appointed official, but the ir’Tains are the true royalty of our city. What citizen of Sharn doesn’t have an opinion about the fate of Lord Dalian ir’Tain, lost at sea a decade ago? Many are sure that he’s a prisoner of the sahuagin, which would explain why Lady Celyria has been funding expeditions into the sahuagin realms. Another camp maintains that Lord Dalian staged his death so he could embrace a swashbuckling life as a pirate king. If the truth ever comes out, you can be sure you’ll read about it here!

Matriarch Lady Celyria ir’Tain is the queen of high society in Sharn. Her activities and those of the ir’Tain children account for just as much newsprint as their father used to. Dalian’s eldest son, Dalas ir’Tain, shocked society last week when he publicly denounced the Brelish monarchy. The dalliances of younger siblings Cyra and Daral sell more issues of the Inquisitive whenever such are reported, and the wedding of middle sister Cariana ir’Tain and Mayne Jhaelian of Aerenal will surely be the biggest social event of 998 YK.

The ir’Tain fortune is tied to the City of Towers. Tain gold funded the construction of many of the towers of Sharn, and the family owns vast sections of the city. You’ve likely heard of the Sixty Families of Sharn, considered the guiding lights of the city. Most assume that these luminaries are ancient and established, their status tied to a royal decree. In fact, when the Tains built their mansion on Skyway, they ordered the architects to design a banquet hall that would seat sixty families and their servants. The original Sixty Families were those that received standing invitations to the first Tain Gala. Though the list has remained generally stable through the years, just last year Celyria expelled the ir’Moros family and gave their place to Saiden Boromar—a surprising advancement for a family that began as Cliffside hooligans.

Anyone who strives to rise in Sharn society must earn the favor of the Sixty. Similarly, those who seek to explore and adventure in the wake of the Last War can surely find patrons among these elite. And from our desks, we will be watching to see which families will be next to rise and fall.